---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Providers

A Provider is simply a table with functions and properties that can be required for each. In other words, it is a static class. Because of a Provider just being a static class, not having a constructor, the Luau OOP syntax can't fit.

There is one ModuleScript per Provider, each containing their properties `Props` and methods `Methods`.

## Create an empty provider

### Using the Plugin

In the toolbar, there is a button named "Create Provider" and a pop-up window will appear to choose a name.
Adding slashes in the name will place it in a subfolder (or create if it does not exists).
For example; creating a service in the server and choosing the name `economy/MoneyService` will place it in `ServerScriptService/Services/economy/MoneyService.luau` if created default bootstrap scripts.

You can choose to place it in:

- Server: Only if there is a folder tagged with both `Provider` & `Server`
- Client: Only if there is a folder tagged with both `Provider` & `Client`

## Set up methods and properties

A Provider contains its own `Props` & `Methods` that will be fused when returned.
Note that `self` must not be used and that `Props` & `Methods` should be used instead.

For example, we have the `Props` & `Methods` for a central bank.

```lua
local Props = {
    money = 0,
    debt  = 0
}
local Methods = {}

function Methods.Deposit(amount:number)
    Props.money += amount
end

function Methods.Withdraw(amount:number)
    if amount > Props.money then
        Methods.Loan(amount - Props.money)
    end
    Props.money -= amount
end

function Methods.Loan(amount: number)
    Props.debt += amount
    Props.money += amount
end
```

## Require another provider

When you require one Provider, you will see it as a table containing methods and props and you can directly work with it.

```lua
local ReplicatedStorage = game:GetService("ReplicatedStorage")
local ServerScriptService = game:GetService("ServerScriptService")

local Harmony = require(ReplicatedStorage.Harmony):Wait()
local BankService = require(ServerScriptService.Services.BankService)

BankService.Deposit(100)
BankService.Withdraw(120)

print(BankService.debt) --> 20
print(BankService) --> BankService{money=0,debt=20}
print(getmetatable(BankService::any))
```
